README.md, before:

# Home Assistant Config

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/joch/home-assistant-config.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/joch/home-assistant-config)

This is my [Home Assistant](https://home-assistant.io) configuration. The goal is to minimize manual control and leave as much as possible to automation. The configuration constantly evolves, so be sure to star the project to keep up with the updates.

## Hardware

The list following is a list of hardware deployed in the home, grouped by room. While there are currently different types, the goal is to standardize on Zigbee.

### Home

- Zigbee hub: [Dresden Elektronik ConBee](https://www.dresden-elektronik.de/conbee/)
- Z-wave hub: [zwave.me uzb](http://zwave.me/index.php?id=28)
- TV remote: [Logitech Harmony Companion](https://www.logitech.com/en-us/product/harmony-companion)
- Security camera (2): [Netgear Arlo Pro VMC4030](https://www.arlo.com/en-us/products/arlo-pro/)
- Camera base station and siren: [Netgear Arlo Pro Base station with siren](https://www.arlo.com/en-us/products/arlo-pro/)

### Bedroom

- Window lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E14](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/70318284/)
- Ceiling lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E27](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/10318263/)
- Bedside lamps: [Xiaomi Mijia MJCTD01YL Yeelight Bedside Lamp](https://www.gearbest.com/smart-lighting/pp_1032313.html)
- Wall dimmer: [IKEA Trådfri Dimmer](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00347831/)
- Window sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Motion sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Occupancy Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-occupancy-sensor/)
- Sleep detection (2): [Fibaro FGWPF-102 ZW5 Wall Plug](https://www.fibaro.com/en/products/wall-plug/)
- Temperature / humidity sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Temperature / Humidity Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-temperature-humidity-sensor/)

### Living Room

- Window lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E14](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/70318284/)
- Ceiling lamp: [Philips Hue White and Color Ambiance E27](https://www2.meethue.com/en-us/p/hue-white-and-color-ambiance-single-bulb-e26/046677464486)
- Globe lamp: [Philips Hue White and Color Ambiance E14](https://www2.meethue.com/en-us/p/hue-white-and-color-ambiance-single-bulb-e12/046677468903)
- TV backlight: [Xiaomi Yeelight Lightstrip](https://xiaomi-mi.com/smart-lighting/xiaomi-yeelight-smart-led-lightstrip-ipl/)
- Wall dimmer: [IKEA Trådfri Dimmer](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00347831/)
- Motion sensor: [Fibaro FGMS-001 ZW5 Motion Sensor](https://www.fibaro.com/en/products/motion-sensor/)
- Window (2) and door sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Unused wall plug: [Osram SMART+ Plug](https://www.osram-lamps.com/ecatalog/smart-home/smart-home-components/smart-plug/index.jsp)

### Hallway

- Ceiling lamp (3): [IKEA Trådfri Lights GU10](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/00318292/)
- Wall dimmer: [IKEA Trådfri Dimmer](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00347831/)
- Motion sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Occupancy Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-occupancy-sensor/)
- Main entrance door sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Smoke sensor: [Fibaro Smoke Sensor FGSD-002](https://www.fibaro.com/en/products/smoke-sensor/)
- Unused wall plug: [Fibaro FGWPF-102 ZW5 Wall Plug](https://www.fibaro.com/en/products/wall-plug/)

### Bathroom

- Window sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Temperature / humidity sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Temperature / Humidity Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-temperature-humidity-sensor/)
- Washer leak sensor (to be deployed): [Xiaomi Mijia Aqara Water sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mijia-aqara-water-sensor/)

### Kitchen

- Window lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E14](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/70318284/)
- Ceiling lamp: [Philips Hue Cher Suspension Light](https://www2.meethue.com/en-us/p/hue-white-ambiance-cher-suspension-light/4076130U7)
- Cabinet lighting: [IKEA Trådfri 30W Transformer](https://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/60342656/)
- Countertop lighting: [Osram Lightify LED Strip](https://smartplus.ledvance.com/products/index.jsp)
- Wall dimmer: [Philips Hue Dimmer Switch](https://www2.meethue.com/en-us/p/hue-dimmer-switch/046677473372)
- Motion sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Occupancy Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-occupancy-sensor/)
- Window sensors: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Dishwasher leak sensor (to be deployed): [Xiaomi Mijia Aqara Water sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mijia-aqara-water-sensor/)

### Guest Bedroom

- Window lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E14](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/70318284/)
- Ceiling lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E27](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/10318263/
- Wall dimmer: [IKEA Trådfri Dimmer](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00347831/)
- Motion sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Occupancy Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-occupancy-sensor/)
- Window sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Guest sleep/wake button: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Wireless Switch](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-wireless-switch/)

## Screenshots

Note that these screenshots are provided in a best-effort manner, and may not reflect the current state of the configuration.

![Home](images/1.png)
![Bedroom](images/2.png)
![Living Room](images/3.png)
![Bathroom](images/4.png)
![Hallway](images/5.png)
![Kitchen](images/6.png)
![Guest Bedroom](images/7.png)
![Automation](images/8.png)
![Security](images/9.png)
![Gauges](images/10.png)
![Weather](images/11.png)

Commit message:

Add initial list of automation

README.md, after:

# Home Assistant Config

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/joch/home-assistant-config.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/joch/home-assistant-config)

This is my [Home Assistant](https://home-assistant.io) configuration. The goal is to minimize manual control and leave as much as possible to automation. The configuration constantly evolves, so be sure to star the project to keep up with the updates.

## Automation

Below are some of my most used automations, which make life just a bit easier and more fun. For a complete light, have a look in the `automation/` folder in the repository.

### Lighting

- When the light in the living room is below 40 lx, enable "light mode", which means that window lamps turn on and room lighting reacts when people are in the room
- When everyone are asleep, enable night lights throughout the home
- When a wall dimmer is used, it will override light automation for that room until it has been empty for 10 minutes, at which the automation resumes
- Full light mode which, when enabled, will run the lights at 100% when motion is detected in a room, and is very useful when cleaning the home
- Light simulation, where some lights will turn on depending on the sun even when nobody is home

### Security

- When someone is about to leave and a door or window is open in the home, a notice sound will be played
- When the last family member leaves the home, the alarm will automatically arm
- When the first family member enters the home, the alarm will automatically disarm
- When the last family member goes to sleep, the alarm will automatically arm for night
- When the fist family member wakes up, the alarm will automatically disarm
- Guest mode which, when enabled, allow approved guests to be part of the alarm and sleep automation

## Hardware

The list following is a list of hardware deployed in the home, grouped by room. While there are currently different types, the goal is to standardize on Zigbee.

### Home

- Zigbee hub: [Dresden Elektronik ConBee](https://www.dresden-elektronik.de/conbee/)
- Z-wave hub: [zwave.me uzb](http://zwave.me/index.php?id=28)
- TV remote: [Logitech Harmony Companion](https://www.logitech.com/en-us/product/harmony-companion)
- Security camera (2): [Netgear Arlo Pro VMC4030](https://www.arlo.com/en-us/products/arlo-pro/)
- Camera base station and siren: [Netgear Arlo Pro Base station with siren](https://www.arlo.com/en-us/products/arlo-pro/)

### Bedroom

- Window lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E14](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/70318284/)
- Ceiling lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E27](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/10318263/)
- Bedside lamps: [Xiaomi Mijia MJCTD01YL Yeelight Bedside Lamp](https://www.gearbest.com/smart-lighting/pp_1032313.html)
- Wall dimmer: [IKEA Trådfri Dimmer](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00347831/)
- Window sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Motion sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Occupancy Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-occupancy-sensor/)
- Sleep detection (2): [Fibaro FGWPF-102 ZW5 Wall Plug](https://www.fibaro.com/en/products/wall-plug/)
- Temperature / humidity sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Temperature / Humidity Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-temperature-humidity-sensor/)

### Living Room

- Window lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E14](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/70318284/)
- Ceiling lamp: [Philips Hue White and Color Ambiance E27](https://www2.meethue.com/en-us/p/hue-white-and-color-ambiance-single-bulb-e26/046677464486)
- Globe lamp: [Philips Hue White and Color Ambiance E14](https://www2.meethue.com/en-us/p/hue-white-and-color-ambiance-single-bulb-e12/046677468903)
- TV backlight: [Xiaomi Yeelight Lightstrip](https://xiaomi-mi.com/smart-lighting/xiaomi-yeelight-smart-led-lightstrip-ipl/)
- Wall dimmer: [IKEA Trådfri Dimmer](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00347831/)
- Motion sensor: [Fibaro FGMS-001 ZW5 Motion Sensor](https://www.fibaro.com/en/products/motion-sensor/)
- Window (2) and door sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Unused wall plug: [Osram SMART+ Plug](https://www.osram-lamps.com/ecatalog/smart-home/smart-home-components/smart-plug/index.jsp)

### Hallway

- Ceiling lamp (3): [IKEA Trådfri Lights GU10](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/00318292/)
- Wall dimmer: [IKEA Trådfri Dimmer](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00347831/)
- Motion sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Occupancy Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-occupancy-sensor/)
- Main entrance door sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Smoke sensor: [Fibaro Smoke Sensor FGSD-002](https://www.fibaro.com/en/products/smoke-sensor/)
- Unused wall plug: [Fibaro FGWPF-102 ZW5 Wall Plug](https://www.fibaro.com/en/products/wall-plug/)

### Bathroom

- Window sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Temperature / humidity sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Temperature / Humidity Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-temperature-humidity-sensor/)
- Washer leak sensor (to be deployed): [Xiaomi Mijia Aqara Water sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mijia-aqara-water-sensor/)

### Kitchen

- Window lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E14](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/70318284/)
- Ceiling lamp: [Philips Hue Cher Suspension Light](https://www2.meethue.com/en-us/p/hue-white-ambiance-cher-suspension-light/4076130U7)
- Cabinet lighting: [IKEA Trådfri 30W Transformer](https://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/60342656/)
- Countertop lighting: [Osram Lightify LED Strip](https://smartplus.ledvance.com/products/index.jsp)
- Wall dimmer: [Philips Hue Dimmer Switch](https://www2.meethue.com/en-us/p/hue-dimmer-switch/046677473372)
- Motion sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Occupancy Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-occupancy-sensor/)
- Window sensors: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Dishwasher leak sensor (to be deployed): [Xiaomi Mijia Aqara Water sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mijia-aqara-water-sensor/)

### Guest Bedroom

- Window lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E14](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/70318284/)
- Ceiling lamp: [IKEA Trådfri Lights E27](http://www.ikea.com/se/sv/catalog/products/10318263/
- Wall dimmer: [IKEA Trådfri Dimmer](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00347831/)
- Motion sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Occupancy Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-occupancy-sensor/)
- Window sensor: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Door / Window Sensor](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-door-window-sensors/)
- Guest sleep/wake button: [Xiaomi Mi Smart Home Wireless Switch](https://xiaomi-mi.com/sockets-and-sensors/xiaomi-mi-wireless-switch/)

## Screenshots

Note that these screenshots are provided in a best-effort manner, and may not reflect the current state of the configuration.

![Home](images/1.png)
![Bedroom](images/2.png)
![Living Room](images/3.png)
![Bathroom](images/4.png)
![Hallway](images/5.png)
![Kitchen](images/6.png)
![Guest Bedroom](images/7.png)
![Automation](images/8.png)
![Security](images/9.png)
![Gauges](images/10.png)
![Weather](images/11.png)
